# 3-3

Exercise 3-3. Predict what each of the following *grep* commands will do, then verify 
your understanding.

```
grep \$         grep \\
grep \\$        grep \\\\
grep \\\$       grep "\$"
grep '\$'       grep '"$'
grep '\'$'      grep "$"
```

A file containing these commands themselves makes a good test case if you want to 
experiment. 

> grep \$

This is equal to `grep $`, which matches right after the last character in one string in regular expression.

In shell, backslash (\\) takes first following character literally, i.e.: 
```
$ echo *
3-1.md  3-2.md  3-3.md

$ echo \*
*
```
For no special meaning characters, like `s`, `\s` has same meaning with `s`:
```
$ echo s
s

$ echo \s
s
```

`\$` will be explained to literal `$` by shell, so `grep \$` is equal to `grep $`, and could matches right after the last character in one string.

> grep \\\\

This instruction matches literal `\`.

As explained above, backslash (\\) takes first following character literally, so first backslash takes second backslash literally.

Therefore, `grep \\` could matches literal backslash (\\) in stdin.

> grep \\\\$

This matches literal dollar sign ($).

We have known that `grep \$` is equal to `grep $`, which matches right after the last character in one string in regular expression.

`\\$` could take `$` literally, so `grep \\$` will match literal dollar sign ($) in text input from stdin.

> grep \\\\\\\\

This command will match literal `\\`.

In `\\\\` , first backslash takes second backslash literally, third backslash takes forth backslash literally. Therefore, 
`grep \\\\` will match literal `\\` in text.

> grep \\\\\\$

This will match pattern `\$`.

> grep "\$"

This command is equal to `grep \$`, who will match right after the last character in text.

`"..."` in shell could take `...` literally after **$**, **\`...\`**, and **\\** interpreted. 

In `"\$"`, `\$` will be interpreted to `$`, so this command will match right after the last character in text.

> grep '\$'

This instruction is equal to `grep \\$`, who will match pattern literal `$`.

`'...'` in shell could take `...` literally. Literal `\$` means literal `$` in regular expression, so `grep '\$'` 
will match literal `$` in input text.

> grep '"$'

This will match right after the last character in one string, whose last character is `"`.

> grep '\'$'

This will make shell waiting another single quote before execute it.

> grep "$"

This command is equal to `grep $`, which means to match right after the last character in one string.

TODO: 
- [x] Figure out the difference between single quote and double quote in shell
- [x] read [anchors](https://www.regular-expressions.info/anchors.html)
